Welcome back you lovely God people in this video we're going to create a global script.
Why are we doing that.
Well I want to make it easier to be able to call nodes from other scripts without using pathes.
Let's go into that in a bit more detail.
Were going to create a global GDP.
I love the name of it not just because it's a global script but also because well that sounds like an
evil layer.
Right I've been watching a lot of Eureka recently some like global dynamics kind of fun.
But that's not why we're doing it.
One it's more convenient in a moment we're going to have the link spikes as an object to gain state
and it's going to be a pain in the butt to have to say okay I need you to find the root level one.
And game state g-day.
Instead let's create a short cuts I could use a global dot game state.
This is awesome or a bust.
If we remove the string referencing from a note path I can move stuff and I can renamed stuff it doesn't
really matter what I call the node.
It'll still find it.
The first thing to do is get a script you press file and new and a quick new script without attaching
it to a node.
I know I told you that doesn't work if it makes you feel better.
God was really creating a secret note in the background that we don't know about.
And I mean to call this global global GDP and I'll make sure I put it in my scrips folder so it's going
in here.
Scripps global g-day.
The next thing I want to do is to make sure that this is automatically loaded so in project settings
I press the auto load tab and find that script.
I'm going to add it and you'll see single turn enabled and that's not a singleton is a script that exists
no matter what scene is loaded so it's going to be our global script.
Okay so what is going to happen within the script.
Well really I'm just going to declare variables in it.
I'm just going to use the global script to hold information.
Remember each script should do one job.
This is that single responsibility principle.
So there's Miggy variable called Game state and I write the same way I wrote the script name because
it's just more sensible.
Okay so what is this variable.
Where's it going to be defined.
There are different ways you can solve this.
Yes you can export node patheon and drag it into the inspector but every time we change something we're
going have to check that everything is in the right place and it's really easy to create circular links
that way so we're not going to export to the inspector.
Instead we set the value of game state to be the game state script itself right that the node that carries
games state whatever that node is wherever it is set it and take that to happen at the beginning of
the game.
The moment this node is created when it is instantiated.
So on the ready function of this node at the moment you come into being.
What do you do.
Global dot games state.
Look at that auto grating equals self equals this node.
The thing that's issuing this instruction.
Just check that's working by going print global dot game state.
And there it is the node I.D..
Now I could do a path to I could to get a..
But this is really really easy.
I don't need the print because now wherever this is whatever it's called it will work.
Let's put in one more for player so inside global GDP there's the play variable and it's the player
script will create a ready functional go after all of those.
It's going to be a global dot player he calls self.
This is going to be really useful because without doing this changing print would mean I need to connect
a signal but I can't just connect this way because these things are being instance and every time I
make a new instance or delete something I have to do it from scratch.
I have to connect them in code and get the path.
Now I don't need to do that.
I can call in a script I'd like you to change the call.
We changed recently in the player script so that it uses global game state instead of get parent.
So pause the video give it a go and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
Let's get to the play script.
And what do we need to do.
We need to find this fourth thing said this.
Is where it was ending the game.
Get parent or end game and that will work as long as we don't change the structure right.
So instead let's just do nice and easy global dot games state DOT and the school gang.
So if that works it will now just go to game state wherever that is instead of having to get the note
and call that function.
Let's find out Bunny.
I need you to make the ultimate sacrifice again to the end of the world.
Boom.
Let's check that works.
I am going to rename level one and I'm going to rename it.
Hello world.
As I've remained at it should work fine let's find out.
Note it's been renamed everything loads fine.
Let's undo that renaming Let's rename the script.
What happens if I rename game state g-day Let's rename you too.
Donkey time dot g-day.
We are now able to rename nodes and scripts and nothing will go wrong.
So let's change doggie time back because it's a silly name and let's rename level one.
Funny thing I want to do a little bit of feature proofing back to global GDP is I'm going to let's make
this a bit bigger.
I'm going to create a variable for the Gooly because we've got to be using that lot as make a variable
called Go eat save that back out a big screen at an and why did that.
And this is going to need a script isn't it.
So on the gooey object let's make a script for the Gooly and that will be the new script.
You'll be called googie and you won't be in scenes you'll be in scripts because I want to be able to
find you.
And all that needs to happen is unready global docs.
Ego self that can be reused for the next few videos when we start dealing with lives and coins in all
the other fun things that the game needs to do.
So be very easy top state to upstate to up date the gooey.
It's not going upstate.
It's staying in the town it was born in.
It likes the people yeah and that brings us this video in this video we've looked at had a use a singleton
to bypass string referencing we've made our script a lot more robust.
We've solved one of the basic things that can go wrong in God would make Ben much happier because when
he does the C sharp thing it's going to be a lot tighter and we've allowed ourselves a lot more scope
to rename and move stuff as we go on.
I think we're in really good shape we're now ready to start connecting lives and coins and all kinds
of other fun things.
So great work and I'll see on the next video.